---
layout: paper
title: Synthesis and evaluation of antibacterial and antifungal activities of some hydrazone derivatives of chalcones
authors: Nguyen Huu Dai, Ly Nguyen Hai Du, Phan-Canh Trinh, Nguyen Duc Tai, Huynh Thi Ngoc Phuong
year: 2020
ref: Dai et al. 2020. Ho Chi Minh City Journal of Medicine.
journal: "Ho Chi Minh City Journal of Medicine 24:2."
pdf: /pdfs/papers/chalcon.pdf
doi: 
---

# Abstract

Background: Combining two groups of structures of chalcone and hydrazone on the same molecule can create new structures with a better biological effect. In this topic, some hydrazones from chalcone have been synthesized and tested for activity to contribute to diversifying groups of potential antibacterial, antifungal compounds.

Objectives: Synthesis and testing of antifungal, antibacterial activity of some hydrazone compounds obtained from chalcone derivatives and semithiocarbazid. 

Methods: Synthesis of chalcone derivatives from 5-bromo-2-hydroxybenzaldehyde, salicylaldehyde and some aromatic ethane-1-one derivatives. These chalcones will be reacted with thiosemicarbazide to create the corresponding hydrazones. 

Results: The 8 derivatives are synthesized includihng 4 chalcone derivatives and 4 hydrazone derivatives. The activity test results showed that 2 hydrazone derivatives 2 - ((E) -3- (5-bromo-2-hydroxyphenyl) -1- (4-bromophenyl) allylidene) hydrazine carbothioamide [HC5] and 2 - ((E) -3- (5-bromo-2-hydroxyphenyl) -1- (p-tolyl) allylidene) hydrazine carbothioamide [HC6] good antibacterial on Microsporum canis with MIC ≤ 32 μg/mL. These two substances also have good activitives on two strains of tested bacteria, HC5: MSSA-MIC = 0.25 μg/mL; *E. coli *- MIC = 0.5 μg / mL; HC6: MSSA-MIC = 0.25 μg / mL; *E. coli *- MIC = 1 μg/mL. HC5 is a new, unpublished substance (SciF. July 17, 2019). 

Conclusion: The synthesized hydrazones have a better antibacterial and antifungal effect on test strains than their respective chalcones. This shows the antibacterial potential of hydrazone derivatives from chalcone. 

Key words: chalcone, hydrazone, antibacterial hydrazones
