---
layout: paper
title: The domesticated transposon protein L1TD1 associates with its ancestor L1 ORF1p to promote LINE-1 retrotransposition
authors: Gülnihal Kavaklioglu, Alexandra Podhornik, Terezia Vcelkova, Jelena Marjanovic, Mirjam A Beck, Trinh Phan-Canh, Theresia Mair, Claudia Miccolo, Aleksej Drino, Mirko Doni, Gerda Egger, Susanna Chiocca, Miha Modic, Christian Seiser 
image: /images/papers/elife.png
year: 2025
ref: Kavaklioglu. 2025. eLife.
journal: "Elife eLife.96850.4."
pdf: https://doi.org/10.7554/eLife.96850.4
doi: 10.7554/eLife.96850.4
---

# Abstract

Repression of retrotransposition is crucial for the successful fitness of a mammalian organism. The domesticated transposon protein L1TD1, derived from LINE-1 (L1) ORF1p, is an RNA-binding protein that is expressed only in some cancers and early embryogenesis. In human embryonic stem cells, it is found to be essential for maintaining pluripotency. In cancer, L1TD1 expression is highly correlative with malignancy progression and as such considered a potential prognostic factor for tumors. However, its molecular role in cancer remains largely unknown. Our findings reveal that DNA hypomethylation induces the expression of L1TD1 in HAP1 human tumor cells. L1TD1 depletion significantly modulates both the proteome and transcriptome and thereby reduces cell viability. Notably, L1TD1 associates with L1 transcripts and interacts with L1 ORF1p protein, thereby facilitating L1 retrotransposition. Our data suggest that L1TD1 collaborates with its ancestral L1 ORF1p as an RNA chaperone, ensuring the efficient retrotransposition of L1 retrotransposons, rather than directly impacting the abundance of L1TD1 targets. In this way, L1TD1 might have an important role not only during early development but also in tumorigenesis.

# eLife Assessment
This important article reports functional interactions between L1TD1, an RNA-binding protein (RBP), and its ancestral LINE-1 retrotransposon, which is not modulated at the translational level. The evidence for the association between L1TD1 and LINE-1 ORF1p is solid. The work implies that the transposon-derived RNA-binding protein in the human genome can interact with the ancestral transposable element from which this protein was initially derived. This work spurs interesting questions for cancer types, where LINE1 and L1TD1 are aberrantly expressed.

